---
layout: post
title: struts i18n
categories: [struts2]
---

Internationalization(aka I18n) is done via message resource(also called resource bundle) and locale.

### Message Resource

Message resource is a properties file which looks like next:

```INI
personBean.firstName=Nombre
personBean.lastName=Apellidos
thankyou=Gracias por registrarse, %{personBean.firstName}. 
```

In struts2, this file has three level:

1. Class Level

   The name of properties file has to be same as struts action class as well as the package.
   
   For example, there is action **src/main/java/example/struts2/Login.java**, then the properties file should be
   **src/main/resources/example/struts2/Login.properties**
   
   This rule is suited for interface too.
   
2. Package Level

   properties file name is **package.properties**, cannot be other names.
   
   For instance, package.properties placed under **src/main/resources/example/struts**, then all class under package  
   example.struts or its sub-packages can use this resource file.

3. Global Level

   For this level, developer need to declare the global properties file in struts.xml like
   **<constant name="struts.custom.i18n.resources" value="properties-file-name" />**, the file name can be any value without 
   extension.

#### Search Order

   The search order is : 1 -> 2 -> 3.
    
   For example, there is example.struts2.i18n.Login.Java, the order is:
   Search Login.properties under the example.struts2.i18n, if there is not, then search the package.properties under the
   example.struts2.i18n, if not, search package.properties under the example.struts2, etc.
    
#### Usage

   The framework supports message resource in the following places:
   
   - the UI tags
     `<s:textfield key="properties-file-key-name" />`
     `<s:text name="properties-file-key-name" />`
     `<s:property value="getText('some.key')" />`
     `<s:i18n name="example.struts.i18n.p"></s:i18n><s:text name="user.name" /></s:i18n>` it ask for `user.name` message from example/struts/i18n/p.properties
   - messages and errors from the ValidationAware
   - within action class through the `getText()` method
   
     ```Java
     public void validate(){
		   if("".equals(getUsername())){
			    addFieldError("username", getText("username.required"));
		   }
		
	  }
     ```
   
#### Using only global bundle

   If you don’t need to use the package-scan-functionality and only base on the global bundles (those provided by the 
   framework and via struts.custom.i18n.resources) you can use existing GlobalLocalizedTextProvider implementation. 
   To use this please define the following option in your struts.xml:

   `<constant name="struts.localizedTextProvider" value="global-only" />`
   
#### Custom TextProvider and TextProviderFactory

   > If you want use a different logic to search for localized messages, or you want to use a database or just want to  
   search default bundles, you must implement both those interfaces (or subclass the existing implementations). You can 
   check a small [example app](https://github.com/apache/struts-examples/tree/master/text-provider) how to use both. 
   Please remember that the TextProvider interface is implemented by the 
   ActionSupport class, that’s why an extra layer - TextProviderFactory - is needed.
   
### Locale

   By default, struts2 uses the user's default locale.  
   The convention of properties file name is **File-name_locale-code.properties**, such as A_zh-CN.properties.
   If locale is en for English then locale code can be ignored.
   
#### Set locale value

   Developer is able to set locale value by parameter `request_locale`.
   
   ```Java Server Pages
   <s:url action="registerInput" var="registerInputLinkES">
       <s:param name="request_locale">zh-CN</s:param>
   </s:url>
   <p><a href="${registerInputLinkES}">Change language to chinese simplified</a> </p>
   ```
   
   By specifying the locale as a url parameter, it tells struts to look for property files ends with zh-CN.
   
#### I18n Interceptor

   Following is the info from struts official doc about the I18n Interceptor:
   > An interceptor that handles setting the locale specified in a session as the locale for the current action request. 
     In addition, this interceptor will look for a specific HTTP request parameter and set the locale to whatever value is  
    provided, it also looks for specific cookie to read locale from. 
    This means that this interceptor can be used to allow for your application to dynamically change the locale for the  
    user’s session or, alternatively, only for the current request. 
    This is very useful for applications that require multi-lingual support and want the user to be able to set his 
    or her language preference at any point. 
    The locale parameter is removed during the execution of this interceptor, 
    ensuring that properties aren’t set on an action (such as request_locale) that have no typical corresponding setter in 
    your action.
    For example, using the default parameter name, a request to foo.action?request_locale=en_US, then the locale for US  
    English is saved in the user’s session and will be used for all future requests. If there is no locale set (for example 
    with the first visit), the interceptor uses the browser locale.
    Parameters
    parameterName (optional) - the name of the HTTP request parameter that dictates the locale to switch to and save in the     session. By default this is request_locale
    requestCookieParameterName (optional) - the name of the HTTP request parameter that dictates the locale to switch to and     save in a cookie. By default this is request_cookie_locale
    requestOnlyParameterName (optional) - the name of the HTTP request parameter that dictates the locale to switch to for       the current request only, without saving it in the session. By default this is request_only_locale
    attributeName (optional) - the name of the session key to store the selected locale. By default this is   
    WW_TRANS_I18N_LOCALE
    localeStorage (optional) - the name of storage location, it can be none, session or cookie. By default this is session
    Examples
    <interceptor name="i18nCookie" class="org.apache.struts2.interceptor.I18nInterceptor"/>
    <action name="someAction" class="com.examples.SomeAction">
        <interceptor-ref name="i18nCookie">
            <param name="localeStorage">cookie</param>
        </interceptor-ref>
        <interceptor-ref name="basicStack"/>
        <result name="success">good_result.ftl</result>
    </action>
