---
layout : post
title : JWT
comments: true
categories : [Security]
---

### What is JWT

JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact JSON object which is used for
securely transmitting information between parties.

Typically, it is used in authentication to prove the user/client is valid,
e.g. Single Sign On.

### How do JWT work

If the user login success, then authentication server will return JWT and 
subsequent each request will send the JWT to target resource, the target server
will check the JWT is valid or not.

Generally the JWT is sent in the **Authorization** header 
using the **Bearer** schema, like:

```
Authorization: Bearer <token>
```

If the token is sent in the http header, `Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)` 
won't be an issue as it doesn't use cookies.

### JWT Structure

JWT looks like(without line break):

```
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.
eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTE2MjM5MDIyfQ.
SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
```

It consists of three parts separated by dots `<header>.<payload>.<signature>`.

#### header

```json
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
```

It contains `token type` which is JWT and `signing algorithm`.

The `header` is **Base64Url** encoded.

#### payload

Payload contains claims.

There are three types of claims:

1. Predefined claims

| Claim Name    | Remarks       |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| iss           | Issuer        |
| sub  | Subject  |
| aud           | Audience        |
| exp  | Expiration Time  |
| nbf           | Not Before        |
| iat  | Issued At  |
| jti           | JWT ID        |
| exp  | Expiration Time  |

2. Public claims

   They should be defined in [IANA JSON Web Token Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt/jwt.xhtml)
   or be defined as a URI that contains a collision resistant namespace.
   
3. Private claims

  Custom claims to share information between parties that agree on using them 
  and are neither registered or public claims.

An example of payload could be:

```json
{
  "sub": "123",
  "name": "test",
  "admin": true
}
```

The `payload` is **Base64Url** encoded too.

#### signature

JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or 
a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

For example, if it is signed using a secret with algorithm, then:

`signature=algorithm(<encoded header>.<encoded payload>, secret)` .

The `algorithm` is defined in `header` and the `secret` is developer defined to
help to encode them.

> The signature is used to verify the message wasn't changed along the way, and, 
> in the case of tokens signed with a private key, it can also verify that 
> the sender of the JWT is who it says it is.

### JWT VS SWT VS SAML

SWT : Simple Web Tokens

SAML : Security Assertion Markup Language Tokens

SAML is xml format, so its size is larger than JWT.

SWT can only be symmetrically signed by a shared secret using the HMAC algorithm. 
However, JWT and SAML tokens can use a public/private key pair.
